GAME Rocket-eraser
BY zenorogue
VAL cpc scifi abstract played=1987 topdown turnbased collectathon fixed tiny ascii
The first "game" I remember making. It was something like, you play as a rocket (why? because there was a rocket character in the default CPC font) and you had
to erase the whole screen.

GAME Go-to-the-end
BY zenorogue
VAL cpc abstract played=1989 seq topdown turnbased logic ascii fixed
Yet another early game. Something like a block puzzle based on the
concept of sliding floors. I doubt my puzzle design skills were
adequate by then.

GAME Faces
BY zenorogue
VAL cpc abstract played=1991 ascii fixed sideview matching realtime seq
Amstrad CPC had a nice character set that included two faces (one happy,
one unhappy). You could also define your own characters by using binary, so
I defined quite a lot of faces and made a game about that. I think it was 
something in the style of {One Man and His Droid}.

GAME Tokam
BY zenorogue
VAL pc abstract played=1992 sideview logic turnbased fixed seq midres
I do not remember how this game was supposed to be called. It was
a turn-based grid-based puzzle, with gravity and a bit of {Boulder Dash} influences,
I think? In general, I liked to draw similar puzzle levels on a grid paper, too. 
I doubt my puzzle design skills were adequate by then, though... 
to be honest, I do not think they are adequate, but it does not matter,
as I switching to roguelikes, also turn-based and grid-based, but procedurally
generated.

GAME blocking
BY zenorogue
BY country: Poland
VAL pc abstract played=1993 shapegfx topdown turnbased multiplayer shapepuzzle picklevel fixed nonvideo
A computer implementation of the paper-and-pencil game I have invented. I have 
sent the rules of the paper-and-pencil game to the local newspaper column about
paper-and-pencil games, and they actually printed it! It was quite fun to play
against my schoolmates, too.

GAME Keys-and-keylets
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1992 abstract sideview platformer seq fixed realtime vectorart
An early game written by me in Turbo Pascal. Some kind of platformer, where you were playing as
a walking key and also collecting keys to open doors.

GAME some kind of Tetris?
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1994 abstract lores sideview shapepuzzle realtime randomized tiny
I think it was some kind of Tetris, using 256-color VGA graphics, but I do not remember how
it differed from the original.

GAME Animals
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1989 animaltheme ascii nonspatial turnbased randomized tiny sciencegame
A very basic game, sometimes used as a way to learn programming (I mean, it was not my idea):
the player thinks about some
animal X, the computer has to guess it (by asking yes/no questions). Its questions are based
on a decision tree, and eventually the computer guesses an animal Y; if incorrect, the
computer asks what animal it was, and asks the user to suggest a question which separates X
from Y (thus making the decision tree larger). Around 1994 I have also made a more complex
version, which was not based on a decision tree, but rather a matrix of questions / answers,
for more variety.

GAME Wheel of Fortune
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1994 abstract nonspatial wordgame turnbased randomized seq ascii
Just a clone of the popular TV show.

GAME Ball
BY zenorogue
VAL pc abstract lores realtime sideview fixed seq played=1995 matching
A game inspired by {Bumpy} (which I have played once at my friend's place and liked but never
played again), Rube Goldberg machines, and maybe {E-Motion} a bit. You have a number of
balls, rolling around a level, with some Rube-goldberg-style contraptions (such as rotating
fan-like shapes which caused every second ball to go forward or drop); the player had control over
some of these. I believe the goal was to make the specific pairs of balls meet (without
hitting other balls). The level was constructed from rectangular tiles, a ball could enter a tile
in 8 ways (two halves of four edges), and I had to define how each tile affects each of 8 ways.
Probably the most original of my games so far.

GAME Firer
BY zenorogue
VAL pc scifi lores realtime shooter topdown fixed seq played=1996
A bit like Space Invaders but you fight large ships (that is, of similar size as yours).

GAME Bum
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1997 military realtime multiplayer fixed picklevel multiweapon sideview platformer lores destructible pixelsim
This game was inspired by artillery games, such as {Scorched Earth} (also featuring tanks), 
and {Worms} that my schoolmates liked to play; although it was in real time, so more like
{Liero} (which did not exist yet then). It also included
some falling sand elements, although it was difficult to make these run fast on the computers
we had back then. I was very impressed by {Noita} much later, it was actually possible
to do the stuff I wanted, and much better! It was my most
serious game up to that point, that I played with my schoolmates (if they wanted to play
that instead of Worms), however, at some point I lost the newest version of my source code,
and I did not care to rewrite it.

GAME Eiteme
BY zenorogue
VAL palmos played=1999 abstract topdown turnbased multiplayer fixed picklevel lores matching
My game for PalmOS, never released. Essentially Gomoku with some configurable variants (change the line length, change the 'line' shape, block tiles, add gravity, etc.).

GAME Vapors of Insanity
BY zenorogue
VAL pc ea=2011 played=1999 tolkien midres blackboard ascii topdown turnbased exp combat engineering procgen randomized openworld free destructible manualsave roguelike
My big roguelike project that unfortunately did not get much attention, so I did not work on it further after my first release.
Originally started as a team project with some friends, but then, only I remained.
Seamless open world. Complex simulation. Programmable magic. No working society (because I thought including that would be too much). Probably {Caves of Qud} would be
the closest modern roguelike.

GAME Untahris Playground
BY zenorogue
VAL pc abstract multigenre topdown sideview realtime shapepuzzle shooter platformer fixed picklevel lores free xp=2 year=2006 played=2006
Take a bunch of classic game designs ({Snake}, {Tetris}, {Xonix}, {Liero}, etc.) and let multiple players play on the same board. This game is available online, although
nobody seems to 

GAME Lasers'n'Engines
BY zenorogue
VAL pc scifi shooter realtime engineering fpp fixed camscroll models free ea=2005 played=2005
I remember talking with some friends about someone adding 'strafe' hotkeys to {NetWars}; one of the friends wondered whether strafing would be practical for a spaceship.
The idea of this game came from that. A game in which you build spaceships -- kind of inspired by {Stars!} probably, but here, you build the spaceships in 3D, and the
way you place the components matter. So the engines would generate jet force according to the laws of physics, so a single engine placed centrally would cause acceleration,
while two placed non-centrally could be used to rotate. I implemented this idea but never pushed it further.

GAME Chromatic Dodger
BY zenorogue
VAL pc notheme sideview platformer flick blackboard realtime fixed played=2009
A 2D platformer where the third 'dimension' is represented by color, so if you were 'green' you would treat other 'green' objects as obstacles, and ignore 'red' objects.
Mostly an idea, I think I implemented a basic platformer, but did not care much about progressing with this project. I am not sure whether it would be seen as that original
(similar dimension-shifting happens in {Guacamelee}, although with only two layers -- in my idea, it was the whole spectrum of colors). But I think it would be quite interesting
when '2D platformer' is replaced with first-person shooter? Then we would get a cool 4D game!

GAME Hydra Slayer
BY zenorogue
BY country: Poland
VAL pc greek year=2010 played=2010 turnbased exp engineering roguelike xp=5 topdown procgen randomized seq ascii midres spacebending free traps enginebuilder rpgclasses rpgconsume
My second biggest game, so everyone should play it!

GAME HyperRogue
BY zenorogue
BY country: Poland
VAL pc medieval year=2011 played=2011 turnbased multigenre exp slasher roguelike xp=5 topdown hscroll vscroll procgen randomized openworld ascii vectorart spacebending free leveleditor traps multiplayer endless=0.5
My biggest game, so everyone should play it! I have written lots about its inspirations.

GAME HD
BY zenorogue
VAL pc played=1999 fpp notheme spacebending timeless exp fixed camscroll twistpixel
A game influenced by some things I have heard about: portal engines for first-person perspective games, and hyperbolic geometry. 'HD' stands for Hyperbolic Doom.
I did not really know how to do hyperbolic geometry then, though. I implemented a portal engine with scaling portals (that does not really work in hyperbolic geometry anyway...)
and stopped at that.

GAME Seuphorica
BY zenorogue
BY country: Poland
VAL pc year=2024 played=2024 xp=3 notheme wordgame grid orthogrid spacebending randomized hscroll vscroll picklevel turnbased ascii shapegfx topdown free
A deckbuilder inspired by {Scrabble} and {Dominion}.

GAME Chicken XXV
BY zenorogue
VAL pc year=2025 played=2025 xp=4 medieval nonspatial timeless ascii mono roguelite rulediscovery seq randomized procgen exp
Some people say that roguelikes are defined by permadeath and lack of metaprogression, not taking Rogue's combat system into account, and also the fact that 
early roguelikes essentially did not have permadeath, and learning non-systemic knowledge (that also made the game significantly easier in later runs) was a
big thing in many early roguelikes. Chicken XXV is a parody of this: a text adventure based on knowledge metaprogression. There is a longer rant in-game.
