GROUP subjective
These things are about me, not only about the game.

NUMTAG gem
"Hidden gem": positive value means that the game is not as popular as it should; the games I consider overrated have negative values.
If I listed "my top 25 games", I would list 5 well-known games and 20 less known ones, and all the discussion would be about the
well-known ones. (Not the actual numbers but you get the idea.) So for a personal review site I think it is better to rate the
"hidden gem" perception. 
In some cases gem values might indicate not strictly quality -- for example, if a game A popularized something that game B did before,
B is likely to get good gem value (even if its quality was not that great) while A is likely to get a penalty.

NUMTAG played
For more context, when I have played the game for the first time. Of course I do not remember, but should give a general idea.

NUMTAG xp
How much do I consider myself to have mastered the game. The scale is: 0 = not played at all (but it had to be here because it is related to games I have played, or I still have
an opinion on it), 1 = tried out but did not progress far, 2 = significant progress, 3 = completed the game but not in a satisfactory way, 4 = satisfactory
OR completionist win, 5 = satisfactory AND completionist win. I am a roguelike fan, so the standard for a "satisfactory" win is respecting
permadeath (no matter how much the game tries to convince me that permadeath was intended), not using cheats, not using walkthroughs or online hints, etc.

GROUP metadata
Information about development such as time and platforms. Platform is mostly what I played it on, but if I have played multiple ports, 
or I associate the game with another platform than what I played them on, I would list multiple.

NUMTAG year
When the game got its official 'full' release. For 'release-early-release-often' games, such as many roguelikes, it is usually just the year of the first public release.

NUMTAG ea
When did it became available to play for anyone who wants.

TAG ext
Means that the game gets substantial updates after its release. In most cases, such games still get updates.

TAG arcade
These games are usually remembered as arcade games from early 80s. Arcades were not popular in my time and place, so I have likely played
their ports on other platforms.

TAG oldpc
Old personal computers that I did not have access to.

TAG console
A game playable on some kind of gaming console. I do not care what console it was; consoles were not popular around here,
so I have not even heard about most of these games when they were new. But I have tried the famous ones on emulators, much later.

TAG cpc
Amstrad CPC was a 8-bit computer popular in the late 80s. The games have been collected by my brother.
I have played them on a computer with green screen and casette reader.
The original casette broke and the tape quality deteriorated, so at some point, I could no longer play many of these games.
Also, some games were too complex; I have played them later on an emulator and they turned out to be quite fun!

TAG amiga
My brother has borrowed an Amiga with some games. I have played some of them on a PC later; the Amiga versions often had better graphics.

TAG atarist
My friend had an Atari ST computer, we have been playing some games on it together, around 1995.

TAG pc
Since 90s to today I have been playing games on PCs. The platform was evolving, but I do not differentiate between DOS, Windows, or Linux.
Games originally on 70s Unix computers are also counted as PC.

TAG palmos
A game for PalmOS (a system for handheld computers from late 90s, basically a predecessor to smartphones). I have played these from about 1998,
first on PalmPilot Pro, then newer models.

TAG android
A game for Android (a popular smartphone system since about 2010).

TAG mainframe
A game originally designed for mainframe computers.

TAG web
A game playable from a website.

TAG free
It is fine for the player to experience the game and not pay the author in any way.

That is of course a very delicate subject, with various people having different opinions
about what a "free game" is allowed to do, and what makes it no longer free; and various games being marketed as free while stretching the boundaries.

The intention here is that it is possible to experience most of the game for free, but it is still fine if the author earns money on it in
some way as long as it is optional for the player (for example, by accepting donations, nagging the players to play them, creating a paid sequel,
selling a paid version on some stores or platforms, selling a paid version with only some minor extensions, distributing artbooks or cluebooks,
showing ads that do not disrupt the gameplay, etc.). It is usually not enough if the game was originally intended commercial but became free later.
See also {tag:shareware}.

Free should not be confused with games that are advertised as free but are very focused on manipulating the player into paying them money.
Given by the amount of ads some of these games have, they earn lots of money, somehow?... Truly free games have no money to advertise.
These games are not considered free here; see {tag:paytowin}.

TAG paytowin
Paying real money may give advantages.

TAG shareware
A movement from the 90s where the author encouraged freely distributing the game (or some part of it); however, the game displayed payment
information, and expected the players to buy the game if they liked it.

The tag refers only to the common kind of shareware game, where a substantial part of the experience was available for free, but also
a substantial part of the experience was not. (If most was available for free, the {tag:free} tag was used instead; I do not think there
is much point to apply a broader interpretation here.) A common example of that
was the "Apogee method" started with {Kroz} and probably most famously used in the {Commander Keen} series, where the game was designed as
a trilogy where the first game was free, and the rest was available for purchase only. Famous companies using this shareware system became
big companies later, so I assume this worked. We consider such shareware trilogies to be single games.
The idea of freely available demos showing 33% content, introduced by Apogee, still lives, as far as I know, although I do not think
it is common in the games I play. Newer games following this principle might also get the shareware tag, even though they are no
longer commonly called shareware.

TAG nonvideo
A game designed to be played without a computer (or similar device). That would include boardgames, card games, parlor games, sports.
This review site is mostly about video games, but some non-video games are included
as a reference, being relevant to the video game culture, or because of their videogame forms.
(Nonvideo games are tagged {tag:free} if they use no specialized elements, standard decks of cards at most.)

TAG philosophy
This is not a specific game, but a game design philosophy. The format I use for describing games (associated tags, what I think about it,
who made it, etc.) is also perfect for describing game design philosophies, so this is how it is done in this database.
It could be even argued that a philosophy is, in some sense, a very detailed game -- because games adhering to a specific game design
philosophy may be very similar and feel like playing iterations of the same game.

TAG 7drl
The game was an entry to the Seven Day Roguelike Challenge.

TAG epicfree
The game was free on the Epic store at some point.

TAG megaitch
The game was available in one of Itch charity megabundles.

GROUP theme
These tags describe the setting of the game.

TAG tolkien
Fantasy in the style of Tolkien or D&D. Elves, dwarfs, orcs, hobbits, and so on.

TAG medieval
Generic medieval fantasy (not Tolkien and not gothic): kings, knights, wizards, dragons, etc. Realistic medieval included too.

TAG lovecraftian
Space horror inspired by H. P. Lovecraft.

TAG scifi
Some kind of futuristic elements: space travel, cyberspace, robots, future technology, aliens, etc.

TAG spaceopera
Games focused on space travel.

TAG cyberspace
Hacking into computer systems.

TAG aliens
Aliens from other planets.

TAG greek
Based on Greek mythology.

TAG helltheme
Hell theme: demons, angels, etc.

TAG norse
Based on Norse mythology.

TAG gothic
Zombies, vampires, werewolves, ghosts, etc.

TAG western
Wild West theme: natives, revolvers, dynamite, gold mines, sheriffs, etc.

TAG pirate
Pirate theme: ships, cannons, buried treasure, parrot, etc.

TAG eastern
Eastern theme: ninjas, martial arts, etc.

TAG animaltheme
Significantly features animals. To qualify for animaltheme=2, the player character should feel like an actual animal,
rather than just "humans in animal suit".

TAG planttheme
Significantly features plants or mushrooms.

TAG bacteria
Significantly features microorganisms.

TAG aquatic
Games taking place underwater.

TAG history
Spans many historical eras.

TAG prehistoric
Cavemen.

TAG steam
Steam technology.

TAG military
Games with (20th century) military themes: guns, tanks, helicopters, airplanes, battleships, etc.

TAG moderntheme
Modern theme: after World War II, but not futuristic.

TAG pyramids
Mummies, pyramids, etc. Both Egyptian and Mesoamerican pyramids are included.

TAG weirdtheme
Thematically weird. Provoking reactions like 'I wonder what this dev has been taking'.

TAG superhero
Themed around superheroes in the style of Marvel or DC.

TAG arabian
Middle Eastern themes reminiscent of 1001 nights: viziers, genies, flying carpets, etc.

TAG abstract
Games about squares, circles, and other geometrical shapes (or some other kind of abstract math).

TAG notheme
No specific theme. Not abstract enough for {tag:abstract}, not weird enough for {tag:weirdtheme}.

TAG female
Female protagonist.

TAG vehicles
You are playing as some sort of vehicle: pirate ship, mecha, starship, car, etc.

TAG gambletheme
The game is themed around gambling and games that feel culturally close to games played in bars (such as billiards).

TAG uniquetheme
Catch-all for weird themes.

TAG sports
The game simulates some kind of real sport (or possibly a fantasy sport that is similar to real sports). Chess, billiards, and {tag:racing} do not usually count.

GROUP perspective
These tags specify what perspective is used by the game. Note that {tag:nonvideo} or {tag:nonspatial} games have no perspective.

TAG multiperspective
Various scenes in the game use different perspectives.

TAG topdown
The game takes place on mostly flat areas, viewed from the above. Slight variations are allowed.

TAG sideview
"Up/down" in the game world is mapped to "up/down" on the screen, and there is one other dimension, mapped to left/right.
Both dimensions, and the distinction between them, need to be important for the gameplay.

TAG isometric
"Up/down" in the game world is mapped to "up/down" on the screen, but the world is three-dimensional, and a cube looks like a (left-right) symmetric hexagon.
Technically, this should be a regular hexagon, but since that cannot be rendered precisely with low-resolution pixels, approximate solutions (close to regular) are allowed too.
But Cavalier perspective (similar to isometric but flat squares are projected to squares rotated by 45 degrees) or projections in which N/S and E/W are not symmetric
would be {tag:otherlinear}.

TAG fpp
The game simulates the player character's point of view.

TAG tpp
The point of view is from behind the player character, to let the player see both the character and what they see.

TAG otherlinear
Other linear (parallel) perspective.

TAG arbi3
Arbitrary 3D (non-parallel) perspective, or generally something hard to classify.

GROUP timeflow
Supergenres related to how the in-game time flows.

TAG turnbased
Game purely about making decisions and reflexes and precision do not matter (although there may be achievements for finishing the game quickly in real time).

TAG timeless
These games do not really feature the concept of in-game time.

TAG realtime
Aka 'action': game about execution, reflexes and precision may matter. Antonymous to {tag:turnbased}.

TAG pauseable
Technically a real-time game, but it can (and probably should) be paused.

TAG semiturnbased
Parts of the game are turn-based, and parts are not.

TAG timegate
These game use real time as a kind of resource. 
I consider this mostly a bad design -- games should let the player play them as fast as they want -- although it does have some positive qualities,
and this resource can be potentially managed strategically, as in, complete the game as quickly as possible.
Some examples: the dark pattern in which you gain in-game energy for spending real time (or real money instead of time); idle games (which often have some automated "2 clicks per second" feature); web games that can
be played once per day.

TAG roguelike
A specific kind of turn-based game where you control the flow of time. You press a key to execute an action (e.g. move to an adjacent tile or attack a monster there).
The action is supposed to take some time, so enemies act too in the meantime. The effects of both are displayed immediately. As a result, you can think for as long
as you want (allowing very complex gameplay), but also, contrary to most other turn-based games, you can play very quickly (no context switching, roguelikes commonly
have auto features, etc.). 

This appears to be close to the originally intended meaning of 'roguelike', so the tag means this. It does not refer to the {roguelike philosophy}.

Technically roguelike, as defined above, is a subgenre of "turn-based". Unfortunately, the roguelike time system fails to work well in multiplayer games
(since it is impossible for ALL players to control time); some game developers try to make "multiplayer roguelikes" which, for this reason, are real-time --
these are tagged as roguelike too (except {Diablo} which is too much action). I could also accept a "timeless roguelike" if it was a game clearly inspired by roguelikes.

GROUP focus
What kind of gameplay does the game focus on.

TAG multigenre
Various scenes in the game belong to different genres. This could mean: the overworld has serious gameplay that is different from the gameplay of specific missions;
has significant sections of genre different than the main (more than mini-game level, such as hacking or fishing mini-games); ...

TAG exp
Games having meaningful focus on exploration.

TAG collectathon
Games about collecting stuff. In a typical collectathon, stuff has no meaning, yet they give meaning to the game: you need to collect them.

TAG quickkey
Press the correct keys, in the time limit.

TAG incremental
Upgrades. TODO ?

TAG combat
Games with combat that is an important part of the game but is generic, that is, does not classify as anything more specific (e.g., "shooter" or "slasher" or "soulcombat"),
or possibly both shooter and slasher weapons are featured in significant way (various units use different weapons, one unit that can use different weapons, etc.)
Most RPGs and many strategy games fall into this category.

TAG platformer
Game about jumping, or some other limited way of moving higher. That definition includes pinballs, I am fine with that.

TAG soulcombat
Combat similar to the <i>Souls</i> series.

TAG shooter
All kinds of games primarily focused on shooting. The challenge is about aiming your shoots well.
Includes both real-time games (aiming in real time) and turn-based tactical games (take walls, distance, other units etc. into account).
Antonymous to {tag:slasher}. That definition includes billiards, I am fine with that.

TAG slasher
All kinds of games primarily focused on close combat. The challenge is about getting into the range of enemies without being hit by them.
Includes both real-time games (beat'em up) and turn-based tactics (melee-focused roguelikes).
Antonymous to {tag:shooter}.

TAG stealth
Games with stealth focus.

TAG dodger
Games focusing on evading enemy attacks. Bullet hell.

TAG physics
A game where mechanics are important. While technically most games with the {tag:platformer} tag could be considered physics games
because of somewhat realistic gravity simulation, we mean something deeper here.

TAG racing
A game focused on reaching the goal as fast as possible.

TAG logic
Games focused on solving logic puzzles. Logic puzzles should be well-defined (discovering
mysteries would be classified as {tag:riddles}, not logic puzzles), binary (solved/not solved, instead of based on
optimization) and human crafted (although procedurally-generated optimization puzzles that are strongly based
on logic may be included too). They can include action elements (we have "realtime" and "turnbased") tags for that).

TAG riddles
A game focusing on discovering secrets based on clues. Compare {tag:logic}.

TAG shapepuzzle
Puzzle games about matching shapes.

TAG squad
You control a limited number of units. Examples are: party-based RPGs, classic squad-based games such as XCOM.
 
TAG army
You control an army. There is no limit on how many units you can have, or the limit is very high.

TAG xxxx
Explore, Expand, Exploit, Exterminate. Games like {Civilization}.

TAG nonlogic
Temporary tag for puzzle/strategy-like games that do not qualify as any more specific kind.

TAG cardgame
Card games.

TAG wordgame
Word games.

TAG matching
Matching games.

TAG bulletheaven
TODO

TAG survival
The game focuses on surviving in a harsh environment.

TAG autobattle
The combat plays by itself, you only manage it on very high level.

TAG defense
Strategy games where you defend something.

TAG economy
The game focuses on resource management (collecting gold and buying stuff, etc.) 
While health (in many games), units (in army strategy), and cash/consumables (in RPGs) can be considered resources,
such games only have economy tag when the focus on economy is done well.

TAG engineering
Building stuff out of elements, as in engineering or programming. This is probably most commonly associated with "zachlikes"; however,
I am not attracted to this kind of games, because it is more fun to program actual stuff -- and if you want it to feel more like a game, 
competitive programming is more fun, for example, you can choose which programming language to use (instead of using some restricted
fantasy programming language). The tag is also used for games with "programmable" magic systems -- essentially, if magic spells are more
constructed out of components rather than cast from a predesigned list, it is sufficient for the "engineering" tag. Factory games
({Factorio}-likes) are also included here.

There are some similar tags, such as {tag:simulationism} (which may also allow combining simple components to construct complex machines
but it is not what the game is really about), and synergies in {tag:deckbuilder}, {tag:enginebuilder} or {tag:deckconstruction} games are
also related.

TAG itemuse
You collect items and use them in correct places. This is common in text adventure games and games inspired by them.

GROUP structure
These tags represent the structure of the game, as in, how the game changes while you play or replay it.

TAG fixed
The world is mostly fixed. Randomized enemy attack patterns or randomized loots do not count.

TAG procgen
Procedural generation: the game uses sophisticated algorithms to generate its content. Sometimes used as a buzzword instead of {tag:randomized};
however, procedural generation does not necessarily need to generate its content differently every time, and also, in my view, 
it has to be something more sophisticated than "randomly rearrange the order of rooms"  or "make the player choose one of three randomly chosen upgrades"
to be called procgen.

TAG randomized
These games feature significant randomization. When you play it again, it will not be the same.

TAG nopersist
While you can reenter locations you have been to before, they will be regenerated.

TAG unlocks
After playing the game, you can play it again in new ways that were originally locked. Includes both
the common feature in modern run-based games designed to make the players feel they achieved something, and 'new game plus'-style upgrades.

TAG itemlock
Playing the game unlocks new items in the future runs that could be found randomly.

TAG ghosts
When you die, the game remembers where it happened, affecting the gameplay somehow (you find some XP/loot when you return to the same location, 
a need to fight a 'ghost' when you return there, you are weakened until you return to collect a part of your essence, etc.)
It covers one feature that is sometimes considered the defining feature of souls-likes, but it also covers the
{tag:roguelike} 'bones' feature coming from NetHack.

TAG soulcheck
The game has checkpoints which restore your health, but also regenerate the enemies. Another defining feature of souls-likes, maybe?

TAG metapower
The game becomes significantly easier as you play it repeatedly, not because of your skill or knowledge, but because of some meta effect in the game.
(I use "metapower" not "metaprogression" because metaprogression is less precise and may also refer to {tag:unlocks}, {tag:itemlock}, {tag:ghosts}
and so on.) It is possible to use metapower for good reasons: to avoid bombarding new players with all the features of a complex game right away, and to
provide a "character growth" arc for a game. There are some games with metapower that I like. Unfortunately, it has the same problem as forced
permadeath: it forces players to replay a game, even if they no longer find it fun, to see all the content; and since fun is subjective, it is
generally impossible to design metapower in a way satisfying to everyone. On top of that, metaprogression is often used a {dark} pattern: it is
impossible (or virtually impossible) to win without metaprogression, or, alternatively, even if you win, it won't unlock the content, you have to
win multiple times. Since there is no clear way to distinguish good and dark metapower, they use the same tag, although {newgameplus} is different.

GROUP worldstructure
Structure of the game world.

TAG tiny
This tag is used for games constrained to a single small "level", so none of the other world structure tags match.

TAG seq
The game is constructed as a sequence of clearly separate units. This includes two main categories of games: games which are sequences of simple "levels"
(e.g. {Manic Miner} or {Rogue}), and strategy-ish games in which you play a campaign. While these two categories intuitively feel different, I see no
clear way of separating them, so the same tag is used.
Both randomized campaigns (e.g. {XCOM}) and handcrafted ones (e.g. {Starcraft}) are included.
It includes both the case when the scenarios are fully separate, and when there is some transfer of resources between scenarios.
The separation here means that you cannot return to an earlier scenario/level (or you can, but there is no good reason to do so). 

TAG picklevel
There are multiple levels that are mostly independent.

TAG minigames
The game is a collection of minigames.

TAG vscroll
Levels are higher than the screen and scrolling vertically as you play them (rather than being constructed out of separate screens). It does not matter whether the scrolling happens automatically or as a result of player movement.

TAG hscroll
Like vscroll but horizontal or diagonal. These are two different tags because many sources separate them (and they are different for sideview games), 
and also so both can be used at once.

TAG camscroll
You can move the camera mostly freely.

TAG autoscroll
Scrolling happens automatically (i.e., not as a result of player movement).

TAG flick
Flick-screen games are constructed out of separate "rooms". You move to another room by moving past the edge of the screen.
(I did not know the name "flick-screen" but I found it in Wikipedia while confirming tags on some games.)
Sometimes the line between flick-screen and {tag:connections} is very thin, but in flick-screen games the individual screens can be
usually arranged into some kind of "map" constructed out of the individual level shapes. In a basic flick-screen game 
the individual screens all fit on single screen, but flick-screen games with larger, scrolling rooms are included too (they also have scrolling tags).

TAG connections
You can move between levels/screens in the game using connections such as stairways, portals, or doors. These connections are two-way.

TAG nonlinear
You can choose the order of solving levels. (Levels themselves being non-linear is not enough.)

TAG openworld
In an open world game, the levels are, basically, huge. They are not small locations bounded by walls, you can spend lots of in-game time 
exploring the before you reach the end of the world (or possibly there is, realistically, no end). Ideally, the game should not switch
to another mode when travelling (you experience the open world on your own scale), but if it does switch to a travelling mode and the
world while travelling still feels huge, that counts too.

TAG overworld
The game features an "overworld" that you can travel and go into specific locations.
The overworld should feel like a part of the game (i.e., not just a menu you pick a location from), although it is fine
if it features no actual gameplay. Compare {tag:openworld}.

TAG return
You can return to older areas later in the game. And there is point to do so -- abilities or knowledge gained in newer areas allow you
to do new things. Sometimes considered one of defining properties of a metroidvania. This tag also typically appears in roguelikes which allow 
you to return to earlier levels, for example, you may decide to avoid fighting an enemy for now and return later. It also appears in
linear games when later levels reveal knowledge that can be used in earlier levels.

TAG multicampaign
Multiple campaigns.

TAG modalbattle
There is a clear separation between exploration and combat. This includes classic jRPGs (you meet enemies and the actual map is not relevant for the battle)
and games such as {The Binding of Isaac} (locking the room doors during battle). Tactical RPGs which have separate exploration and combat modes but the map is mostly
the same (and usually not locked) do not qualify -- the separation is not clear enough.

TAG endless
The game does not ever tell you that you won. Or (for 0.5 points) it does, but you can play further.

GROUP geometry
These tags are mostly for strategy games, and games with strategy elements.

TAG grid
Grid- or graph-based games. That means that the position of game objects is discrete, so for example, typical platformers with levels constructed out of square
tiles do not count. The grid should be on the same order of magnitude as the game objects, so {tag:pixelsim} games do not count. If the game has shooting
with shots going in pixel-perfect Euclidean straight lines, such as in {Rebelstar}, it is still fine (and cool), even if it goes against the discrete nature a bit.

TAG nonspatial
The game does not feature any kind of (two-or-more-dimensional) spatial gamepla. Common in menu-based or card games.

TAG orthogrid
The mechanics do not allow to move through grid corners. A canonical example is horizontal and vertical movement only on a square grid.

TAG diagrid
The mechanics allows to move through grid corners. A canonical example is eight-directional movement on a square grid.
(In Chess both 'orthogrid' and 'diagrid' would be used because different pieces move differently.)

TAG hexgrid
The grid used does not have corners. A canonical example is the hex grid.

TAG arbigrid
Irregular grids. More graphs than grid, actually.

TAG true3
Truly three-dimensional game.

GROUP rpg

These are mechanics related to character growth or role-playing. They are commonly found in RPGs, but other kinds of character growth
appearing in games not commonly referred to as RPGs, such as deckbuilding or ability-gating, are also in this category.

TAG deckbuilder
You have a 'deck' of 'cards' you draw from, and the core focus of the game is to improve that deck, by adding new synergizing cards. 
It does not have to be a literal deck of cards, but it is important that you randomly draw objects available every turn.
Deckbuilders are distinct from <i>deck construction</i> games: in deck construction games you have a collection of cards (that possibly
also grows) and you pick which cards to use for a specific mission (commonly, you can sell cards for resources), 
while in deckbuilders, building the deck is done repeatedly, and you always use your whole deck (commonly, you pay resources to get
rid of cards, as otherwise they just slow you down by being drawn instead of good cards). We also include "bagbuilders" while they are technically a bit different.

TAG enginebuilder
A generalization of deckbuilder. Also about upgrades and synergies, also heavily focused on that so it is done repeatedly,
but you do not draw them from a deck. While all deckbuilders are enginebuilders, this tag means non-deck engine building
(for example, both deckbuilder and enginebuilder means that the game features both deck and non-deck engine building).
Sometimes mistakenly called {tag:roguelike}.

TAG deckconstruction
You have a collection of cards (that possibly grows as the game progresses) and you pick which cards you are going to use for a battle.

TAG ability
Ability gating: some areas are only accessible when you have required abilities, and these unlocks are more interesting than simple keys.

TAG oneofthree
The character advancement in the game is commonly done in the "pick one of three upgrades" form. (Possibly not exactly three.)

TAG crafting
You construct your own items from materials of some kind.

TAG rpgequip
You can wear equipment. The difference between equipment and typical upgrades is that equipment takes "slots" and you cannot, for example,
wear two helmets simultaneously.

TAG rpgconsume
You can have consumables in your inventory, such as magical potions. Consumable means that they disappear after use. 
The amount of "slots" must be high (so e.g. three "potion slots" is not enough).
Consumables which refill at checkpoints, such as in some souls-likes, do not count.
This is considered an {tag:economy} when the resource management is tight.

TAG rpgstats
There are numerical values that you can increase during the game: primary stats, skills, etc.

TAG rpgquests
You can get quests from NPCs and complete them.

TAG rpgclasses
You can play as one of multiple classes (or an equivalent kind of choice: follow different gods, be of different races, be one of multiple ships, etc.)

GROUP graphics

TAG multigfx
The game features multiple graphical styles, either as separate subgames, or as a choice for the user.

TAG ascii
The display is composed from letters and other simple characters. It does not have to technically be ASCII, extended character sets are allowed too.
This includes, in particular, classic roguelikes (it is enough to have an ASCII mode to qualify) and text adventures (if they feature
graphical illustrations, they still qualify).

TAG lores
Low-resolution sprites. Pixels clearly visible. Must use low resolution consisently and not transform sprites, otherwise classified as {tag:twistpixel}.

TAG midres
Mid-resolution sprites. Pixels still visible. Must use mid resolution consisently and not transform sprites, otherwise classified as {tag:twistpixel}.

TAG twistpixel
These games appear to have low-resolution sprites, but they are clearly not copied directly to the screen (or simulating that). 
They contain sub-pixel effects, the pixel art is scaled or rotated, etc. Early 3D games without actual models but with low-resolution
textures (such as Doom) are included.

TAG hires
High-resolution art. Pixels no longer visible (unless you look for them).

TAG uniquegfx
Unique graphical style.

TAG vectorart
Graphics that appear to be obtained using vector art. These typically look cartoonish.

TAG anime
Graphics similar to anime.

TAG models
The game uses 3D models (possibly pre-rendered as 2D).

TAG photorealistic
Photorealistic graphics. How much photorealistic a game has to be to qualify might change depending on the era.

TAG shapegfx
The graphics are simple shapes.

TAG mono
Monochromatic games.

TAG blackboard
The style of drawn on blackboard. ASCII games are not included.

GROUP other
These tags represent things that do not match the other categories.

TAG spacebending
This means that the space in the game does not work as usual, for example, by using portals, perspective tricks, or non-Euclidean geometry.

TAG pixelsim
Games where the world is meaningfully simulated up to precision of single pixels. In most of these games, the pixels would be {tag:destructible}. 
{Noita} is a modern pixelsim game, older ones include {Lemmings} and artillery-ish games such as {Scorched Earth}, {Worms} or {Liero}.

TAG destructible
Games where walls are just a suggestion, you can shape them as you please, using abundant weapons or digging tools; possibly you can even
create your own walls too. A common feature of {tag:pixelsim} games and many games in the classic {tag:roguelike} genre, also {Boulder Dash}-style games.

TAG idminigame
An iconic feature introduced in {Rogue}, where potions, scrolls and wands would have names such as "blue potion" and you would need to identify them somehow
to know what they do (e.g., by using a scroll of identification -- often you do not know which scroll is the scroll of identification -- by analyzing how frequent they
are, by analyzing how traders react to them, by using them in a "safe" way, etc.). While many RPGs take inspiration from the mystery of pen&paper role-playing games
and feature unidentified items, this is more specific: the appearance should be randomized in every run, the game is not about memorizing the appearances.

TAG leveleditor
Games featuring a built-in level editor.

TAG roguelite
Games marketed as, or commonly referred as, roguelike/roguelite, but not actually a {tag:roguelike}. It is quite meaningless, it is included for statistical purposes. 

TAG sciencegame
In general, I make a distinction between "science games" and "educational games": the purpose of educational games is to teach something, while the purpose of a science game
is to take a scientific concept and turn it into a fun game.

Unfortunately, educational games are not well-regarded -- they often have a problem that there is no fun gameplay, or if there is somewhat fun gameplay, they
fall into the "chocolate-covered broccoli" trope: the game would be better if all the educational content was removed and only the game remained. This does not
happen in science games where education and fun are not separable. Of course, it still may happen that a game based on some sophisticated math concept may not turn out to be
actually fun.

In this database, no distinction is made -- I am not generally interested in playing edu-games, and the few that I did play are probably better to include with science games.
There is also no distinction between science and other kinds of knowledge that could be applied here (e.g., technology or culture).

TAG bossfights
The game features good boss fights. Roguelike "uniques" count as bosses.

TAG traps
The game contains traps of some kind.

The definition of a trap used by this database is rather vague. {Rogue} traps are hidden (until you search for them) and can hurt your character. But if it is your character who
sets the traps to hurt your enemies, it counts too. If they are visible, they count too. In general, traps are part of the game world that are designed to be nasty to someone 
without being enemies or projectiles.

TAG secrets
The game contains exploration secrets.

The model secrets are seen in {Rogue}, where being close to a wall and executing a "search" command can reveal a hidden part of the current level,
and in {Doom}, where being close to a wall and executing the "open door" command can reveal that the wall was in fact a door.

In general, secrets do not need to be hidden doors -- in a platformer, they could be, for example, clouds in the sky that surprisingly happen to be walkable, or even items that
are invisible until your character moves to where they are. They need not be completely invisible, but they should be obscure enough that the player might not notice them
despite diligent exploration.

However, {tag:riddles} and {tag:rulediscovery} are different kinds of secrets.

TAG ddlike
A game in the style of Desktop Dungeons: there is a map similar to roguelikes, but the fights are largely independent battles.

TAG spireview
Games featuring the system introduced in Slay the Spire: they use sideview battle screens, and your fighting success (damage, etc.) depends on some kind of mini-game.

TAG broughlike
A subgenre of roguelike.

TAG simulationism
Challenges in the game do not have one "intended" solution and can be solved in significantly different ways; the game simulates multiple
systems as building blocks to support this, possibly allowing solutions not intended by the developer. A typical example is having enemies
that could not only be fought, but also avoided using stealth, bribed, ignored, disabled with some tech/magical means, etc. This is commonly
associated with the {immersive sim} philosophy but it is also done in some {tag:roguelike}s, and also some physics games. 
While the synergies in {tag:deckbuilder}, {tag:enginebuilder} and {tag:deckconstruction} games often have similar qualities, they are
considered different tags -- all these are based on finding synergies in arbitrary rules, while simulationist games are about simulating
something resembling the real world. Also {tag:engineering} is used when the game is focused more on engineering/programming.

TAG rulediscovery
This tag includes knowledge-gated games, as well as games in which the point is to understand the rules.

TAG socialsim
Some kind of friendship simulation.

TAG manualsave
The game saves manually.

TAG passsave
The game saves passwords.

TAG difflevels
The game has multiple difficulty levels.

TAG multiweapon
The game has a choice between multiple weapons which are significantly different.
An RPG with a choice between melee weapon, missile weapon and magic does not count (even with different shapes of magic).

TAG multiplayer
The game supports multiplayer. The support needs to be non-trivial: more interesting than "two players can play the same game and compare scores" or
"two players can cooperate controlling the character".

TAG musicgame
Music is important, in some way.

TAG trail
Trail games.

TAG ammolimit
Games with limited ammo for your weapons. So you have to aim your weapons well, change them instead of always picking the best weapon, and so on.
This is technically a form of {tag:economy} and also similar to {tag:rpgconsume}, but specific enough to be a separate tag.

VALIDATE (year > 1960 and year < 2030) or unknown:year or nonvideo or by:zenorogue
VALIDATE (played > 1984 and played < 2030) or (def:xp and not xp)
VALIDATE def:xp or not def:year
VALIDATE orthogrid or hexgrid or diagrid or arbigrid or philosophy or not grid
VALIDATE theme or philosophy
VALIDATE perspective or nonvideo or nonspatial or philosophy
VALIDATE timeflow or philosophy
VALIDATE focus or philosophy
VALIDATE structure or philosophy
VALIDATE worldstructure or philosophy
VALIDATE graphics or nonvideo or philosophy

SUGGEST ea 1
SUGGEST ext 1
SUGGEST free 1
SUGGEST 7drl 1
SUGGEST epicfree 1
SUGGEST exp platformer
SUGGEST soulcombat ability
SUGGEST randomized procgen
SUGGEST true3 (not grid) and (not nonspatial)
SUGGEST oneofthree roguelite
SUGGEST mono 1
SUGGEST blackboard 1
SUGGEST destructible 1
SUGGEST idminigame roguelike
SUGGEST leveleditor 1
SUGGEST sciencegame 1
SUGGEST bossfights 1
SUGGEST traps 1
SUGGEST rulediscovery 1
SUGGEST spireview 1
SUGGEST manualsave 1
SUGGEST multiplayer 1
SUGGEST multigenre 1
SUGGEST multigfx 1
SUGGEST trail 1
SUGGEST crafting 1
SUGGEST ammolimit 1
SUGGEST models photorealistic
SUGGEST multiweapon combat
SUGGEST simulationism 1

ABOUTBY zenorogue
I do not consider ADOM "my" game, but I contributed to the development of the graphical version, so I mark it as a conflict of interest.

ABOUTBY community
Community development means that the development of the game happens in a somewhat open environment. The canonical way of how this is done
is to create open source games; in many cases, such projects are continued by a "community" when the original developer(s) lose interest.
Big community-developed games have hundreds of developers. {ADOM} is included -- while it never was an open source game, it had a Bug/RFE
database that everyone could contribute to. I think this development model is almost unique to roguelikes, although maybe I do not know
something. Possibly more games can be reasonably called community-developed (heavily modded games might have eclipsed the original?),
but I do not know about them.

ABOUTBY Lucasfilm
Known as LucasArts between 1990 and 2021.